---
layout: post
title: "Context"
description: "Here is where I explain context of my history and experiences before starting this blog"
date: 2017-11-3
updated: 2017-11-3
comments: true
categories: context
tags: [retrospective]
---

# Justin's Edits / Comments (see PR)

It's sometimes fun and always important to take context into account, so here I will describe, at a very high level, my experience in the tech field so far. I'll break it down into two sections: academia, and industry.
> Sometimes and always are usually words to avoid (I tend to be guilty of this as well)

# Academia

The school I went to, Drexel University, is very industry focused and experience focused. Students take a hands on approach to solving problems using implementation rather than theory. I took about half of my classes from adjunct professors, which means that they work out in the field and only teach one class a term normally. Their perspectives therefore are geared towards practicality and building solutions.
> The word mentality is used a lot throughout the post - consider using culture, environment, synonyms of mentality etc.

I did of course still have many classes geared towards theory, as my degree was computer science after all. My graduate classes were almost always taking a different perspective. I enjoyed them more because they challenged me more and of course their syllabi were a lot more complex, but I wouldn't have liked not having any classes for programming.

That experience gave me a balance of theory and practical development. In college is where I became addicted to learning, because I was never satisfied with just learning what's on the test - I wanted to learn how it works and why it's important. My favorite professor would stay after class for hours and talk with a few of us about computers and consider why the industry moved in certain directions. He also helped instill a growth mindset that I hope I keep forever. He accomplished this by telling his students not to worry about their grades but instead to worry about what they learned. I definitely took this to heart and internalized it, and generalized to all of life.

# Industry

While this blog starts with my first job out of college, I did work all through college, spending 21 months out of 5 years working full time and only taking classes part time (well actually for 3 of those months I did both full time but that's beside the point) and the rest of the time working part time and studying full time to get my BS and MS in 5 years.

For 6 months I worked at a financial firm called Susquehanna Investment Group. The culture there is that the technology department is serves 1 goal which is expanding productivity of the other departments. This is where I learned .NET development for the first time. I got to work on some interesting applications. One such application was a folder comparison tool for deployment between environments. Another was an activity monitor to ensure servers are up and running. Additionally, a tool for users to record certain kinds of trades in our database. While working at this company, I did not get to collaborate with others on projects but did have them review my code.

For part time, then for my second 6-month coop, then part time again, then full time for 3 months, then part time again, I worked for Brandywine Global Investment Management. This job was very comfortable for me, everybody was really nice and helpful and wanted to see me succeed. I will definitely stop in and say hi when I visit home for the holidays. At this company, I was given a lot more responsibility. The kinds of projects I worked on were more directly involving the business. I had opportunities to collaborate with others, own solutions, be an expert for some technologies due to working with them a lot. As a stretch goal I was asked to interview interns and coops for similar positions when the company decided to hire more from Drexel.
> That first sentence! Consider something more of a table above the paragraph? It's a blog post not an essay.

For two separate 3 month spouts of full time internships, I worked in Commercial Software Engineering at Microsoft. I had two amazing managers. Additionnally, I collaborated with several amazing mentors that helped me find my place. For my first summer, I worked on a plugin for visual studio using a library from Microsoft Research which I was not able to share on GitHub. This project was the first time I used unit testing other than in class. I worked with a group of 10 other interns, but only one of them was working on my same project with me. It was a very collaborative environment, and we all loved sharing what we learned with each other and learning from each other as we were all exposed to different kinds of projects and workflows. For my second summer the situation was similar, only there were less of us and I was one of two returning interns so my role was expanded. For this summer, my main project was a [bot targeted towards financial reporting](https://github.com/tessmichi/fineas). 

My other part time jobs included student assistance, and a term of teaching assistance.
> Consider including a conclusion maybe? As in, what does the reader benefit from taking the time to read this post.
